CompOSE README file

The online service CompOSE (http://compose.obspm.fr) provides information and 
data tables for different equations of states (EoS) ready for further use 
in astrophysical applications, nuclear physics and beyond. This service has 
three major purposes:

- CompOSE is a repository of EoS tables in a common format for direct usage
  with information on a large number of thermodynamic properties, on the
  chemical composition of dense matter and, if available, on microphysical
  quantities of the constituents.  
- CompOSE allows to interpolate the
  provided tables using different schemes to obtain the relevant quantities,
  selected by the user, for grids that are tailored to specific applications.
- CompOSE can provide informationadditional thermodynamic quantities, which
  are not stored in the original data tables, and on further quantities, which
  charactize an EoS such as nuclear matter parameters and compact star
  properties.

The format of the files as well as the calculational mesh is mainly determined 
according to the needs of scientific groups performing extensive numerical 
simulations of astrophysical objects.

We cannot offer an online service for all features of CompOSE, e.g. to run
all codes online.  This is mostly due to limitations in storage and
computation times but also gives better control on avoiding unphysical input
parameters. However, we offer several computational tools that allow the user
to extract the data from the tables that are relevant for her/him. The
present release of the CompOSE tools contains the following files

- Makefile 
  A Makefile using the gnu make utility which allows to build the program
  compose from the existing source files (see below). At present it employs
  the gfortran and gcc compilers. A flag can be set in the Makefile to
  enable/disable the compilation of the HDF5 output part.

- compose.f90
  Main compose code.

- composemodules.f90
  Contains all the modules used by compose apart from those specific to the
  HDF5 output part.

- hdf5compose.f90
  Interface for HDF5 output.

- hdf5writecompose.c
  HDF5 output routines.

- hdf5readcompose.c
  Example routines for reading the HDF5 output.

- eos.quantities
  Example file for defining the quantities in an EoS table to be generated by
  compose, see the Manual (http://compose.obspm.fr/Data/Manual/manual.pdf) for
  more detailed information. 

- eos.parameters
  Example file for defining the parameters generating an EoS table. 

CompOSE is a service initiated by the CompStar European network and maintained
mainly by T. Klaehn, M. Oertel, and S. Typel (contact develop@compose.obspm.fr).
